# QA Automation Testing using Robot Framework in Portal B2B

## Prerequisites

1. **Python**: Ensure Python is installed on your system. Robot Framework requires Python version 3.6 or newer. You can download Python from [python.org](https://www.python.org/downloads/).

2. **PIP**: PIP is a package manager for Python. It usually comes installed with Python by default. You can verify by running `pip --version` in your terminal.


## Setup Instructions

1. **Clone the Repository**: Clone the repository containing your Robot Framework test scripts onto your local machine.

2. **Navigate to the Project Directory**: Open your terminal or command prompt and navigate to the directory where you cloned the repository.

3. **Install Dependencies**: If your tests have additional dependencies, ensure they are installed using PIP. You might have to run:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. **Browser Library**: For web testing, we'll need the Browser library. Install it using PIP:

    ```
    node --version
    npm --version
    rfbrowser init
   ```

4. **Run Tests**: To run your tests, use the `robot` command followed by the path to your test suite file. For example:
  
  - Running using GUI

   ```
   robot --outputdir reports -v HEADLESS:False tests

   ```

 - Running using HEADLESS

   ```
   robot --outputdir reports  tests

   ```

5. **View Test Results**: Once the tests finish executing, Robot Framework generates detailed reports. Open the generated report to view the test results.


# Project Folder Structure

This repository follows an organized structure to facilitate code maintenance and comprehension. Below explains the function of each folder within the project:

## /tests

The `/tests` folder contains all the test cases written using Robot Framework. These test cases are organized into subfolders according to functional area or test type.

### /pagesObject

The `/pagesObject` folder contains page object files representing different pages or components of the application under test. These page objects encapsulate the interactions and elements of the corresponding page, promoting reusability and maintainability of the test code.

## /resources

The `/resources` folder contains resource files that include custom keywords, common configurations, and other reusable elements used in tests.

### /keywords

The `/keywords` folder contains Robot Framework keyword files defining custom keywords specific to the application or test requirements. These keywords encapsulate common actions or functionalities to promote reusability across test cases.

### /database

The `/database` folder contains database connection files or SQL scripts used for test data setup, verification, or cleanup in database-related test cases.

### /library

The `/library` folder contains external libraries or modules used in the test automation framework. These libraries provide additional functionalities or capabilities beyond what Robot Framework offers out of the box.

## /reports

The `/reports` folder is where execution reports generated by Robot Framework are stored after running the tests. These reports provide details on the outcome of each test case and are useful for reviewing and analyzing software quality.

## /config

The `/config` folder contains configuration files used in tests, such as environment variables, URL configurations, browser settings, etc.

## /dataDriven

The `/dataDriven` folder is used to store data files used in data-driven tests. This may include CSV, Excel, or other formats used for feeding data into test cases.



